Firescrape is a plugin for Firebug (which is itself a Firefox plugin)
for developing screen scrapers.

It is currently in early development, though a very useful feature is
already present:

In Firebug's HTML tab, right click a DOM node and select "Mark
Contaianer Element".  Now right click another node and click "Copy
relative XPath" to copy the xpath from the container node to the
second node to the clipboard.  Note that the xpath may be useful
verbatim, but generally it will be overly constrained and you might
want to play around with it.

## Design

Screen scraping can be a complex task that requires advanced
programming and specialized logic.  Firescrape provides tools
necessary for creating rudimentary screen scrapers.

Most screen scrapers I have written have two major components:
navigating to various pages, and then gathering information from the
pages retrieved.  At present, Firescrape attempts to do a very good
job at the latter ask.  The navigation task is a long-term goal of the
project (help appreciated!).

XML/HTML pages are tree structures of nested nodes.  Scrapers take as
in put an HTML hierarchy and usually produce hierarchical output, like

* list of projects
   * project-name
   * project-creation-date
   * project-creator
      * name
      * telephone


To accomplish this, we define the idea of a "scraper" as a function of
some inputs that produces some intermediary output that it then passes
along to its children to yield the final result

## TODO

1. UI for defining hierarchical screen scrapers based on XPath
   expressions.

2. Navigation features -- creating screen scrapers that crawl around
   the web

## Installation 

This extension was generated by the Extension Wizard at
[ted.mielczarek.org](http://ted.mielczarek.org/code/mozilla/extensionwiz/).

You can build an XPI for installation by running the build.sh script
located in this folder.  Then load up the XPI from firefox to install.
Alternatively, check out the downloads section on github (LINK HERE)

For development you should do the following:

1. Unzip the entire contents of this package to somewhere, e.g, `c:\dev` or `/home/user/dev`

2. Put the full path to the folder (e.g. `c:\dev\firescrape` on
   Windows, `/home/user/dev/firescrape` on Linux) in a file named
   `firescrape@iodb.org` and copy that file to `<your profile folder>\extensions\`

3. Restart Firefox.
  
For more information, see the
[Mozillazine Knowledge Base article](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Getting_started_with_extension_development)


